tpm docs (#3071)
hashicorp/web-unified-docs: content/vault/v2.x/content/api-docs/auth/tpm.mdx

---
layout: api
page_title: TPM - Auth Methods - HTTP API
description: |-

>   This is the API documentation for the Vault TPM authentication method.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  API documentation for the Vault TPM authentication method.
```

# START AUTO GENERATED METADATA, DO NOT EDIT
created_at: 2026-04-15T00:13:43.000Z
last_modified: 2026-04-15T00:13:43.000Z
# END AUTO GENERATED METADATA
---

# TPM auth method (API)

<EnterpriseAlert product="vault" />

This is the API documentation for the Vault TPM authentication method. The TPM
auth method allows clients that hold a TPM (Trusted Platform Module) device to

> authenticate using TLS client certificates backed by hardware attestation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The TPMA auth method allows clients that hold a TPM (Trusted Platform Module) device to authenticate using TLS client certificates backed by hardware attestation.
```

Before a TPM can authenticate, it must be enrolled via the [`identity/tpm`](/vault/api-docs/secret/identity/tpm#create-a-tpm) endpoint
in the same namespace as the TPM auth method is mounted in, and the TPM
auth method must be configured with at least one role.

> This documentation assumes the TPM auth method is mounted at the `/auth/tpm`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The examples below assume the TPM auth method is mounted at the `/auth/tpm`
```

path in Vault. Since it is possible to enable auth methods at any location,

> please update your API calls accordingly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
path in Vault.
```

---

## Configure

Set the internal CA parameters for the TPM auth backend. The backend manages
its own CA that it uses to issue and verify client certificates. Writing to
this endpoint on first use initialises the CA; subsequent writes update the
CA rotation parameters and may rotate the active CA if the new settings

> require it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
its own CA that it uses to issue and verify client certificates. The first write
to the configure endpoint initializes the CA. Subsequent writes update the CA
rotation parameters and may rotate the active CA if the new settings require it.
```

| Method | Path              |
| :----- | :---------------- |
| `POST` | `/auth/tpm/config` |

### Parameters

- `ca_lifetime` `(duration: "8760h")` – How long each CA certificate is valid
  once it becomes the active CA. The backend always pre-generates a *Next* CA

>   before the *Active* CA expires, so there is no gap in signing capability.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  before the *Active* CA expires to avoid gaps in signing capability.
```

  Accepts a Go duration string (e.g. `"8760h"`, `"365d"`) or an integer number
  of seconds.

- `ca_soft_expiry` `(duration: "720h")` – How long before the hard expiry of
  the Active CA it stops signing new certificates. When the Active CA's
  remaining lifetime drops below this window it is retired and the pre-generated
  Next CA is promoted. Must be less than `ca_lifetime / 2`. Accepts a Go

>   duration string or an integer number of seconds.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `ca_soft_expiry` `(duration: "720h")` – Sets a soft expiry for the active CA,
  after which the CA stops signing new certificates. When the time remaining on
  the active CA drops below the softe expiry window, Vault retires the active
  CA and promotes the pre-generated next CA. The soft expiry duraciton must be
  less than `ca_lifetime / 2`. Accepts a Go duration string or an integer number
  of seconds.
```

- `default_cert_ttl` `(duration: "")` – Default lifetime for client
  certificates issued by the [`gentpmcert`](#begin-tpm-certificate-issuance)
  endpoint when the role does not specify `cert_ttl`. When unset or `0`, the
  effective TTL falls back to `ca_soft_expiry`. The actual certificate lifetime

>   is always capped by the signing CA's remaining validity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  effective TTL falls back to `ca_soft_expiry`. Vault always caps the actual
  certificate lifetime by the remaining validity of the signing CA.
```

### Sample payload

```json
{
  "ca_lifetime": "8760h",
  "ca_soft_expiry": "720h",
  "default_cert_ttl": "168h"
}
```

### Sample request

```shell-session
$ curl \

>     --header "X-Vault-Token: ..." \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ${VAULT_TOKEN}" \
```

    --request POST \
    --data @payload.json \

>     https://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/auth/tpm/config

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ${VAULT_ADDR}/v1/auth/tpm/config
```

```

### Sample response

```json
{
  "data": {
    "ca_lifetime": "8760h0m0s",
    "ca_soft_expiry": "720h0m0s",
    "default_cert_ttl": "168h0m0s"
  }
}
```

---

## Read configuration

Return the current CA configuration.

| Method | Path              |
| :----- | :---------------- |
| `GET`  | `/auth/tpm/config` |

### Sample request

```shell-session
$ curl \

>     --header "X-Vault-Token: ..." \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ${VAULT_TOKEN}" \
```

>     https://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/auth/tpm/config

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ${VAULT_ADDR}/v1/auth/tpm/config
```

```

### Sample response

```json
{
  "data": {
    "ca_lifetime": "8760h0m0s",
    "ca_soft_expiry": "720h0m0s",
    "default_cert_ttl": ""
  }
}
```

---

## Create or update role

Creates or updates a named role. Roles define which TPM devices (by individual
ID or by group membership) may obtain client certificates and authenticate
against this mount, and also govern the Vault token parameters issued on
successful login.

At least one of `tpm_ids` or `tpmgroup_ids` is required.

| Method | Path                  |
| :----- | :-------------------- |
| `POST` | `/auth/tpm/role/:name` |

### Parameters

- `name` `(string: <required>)` – Name of the role. Used in API paths and
  stored in lower-case.

- `tpm_ids` `(array: [] or comma-delimited string: "")` – List of TPM record
  IDs (EK SHA-256 hashes in the form `sha256-<hex>`) that are authorized to
  use this role. TPMs are enrolled via the

>   [`identity/tpm`](/vault/api-docs/secret/identity/tpm#create-a-tpm) endpoint.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  IDs (EK SHA-256 hashes in the form `sha256-<hex>`) authorized to use the role.
  You can enroll TPMs using the
  [`identity/tpm`](/vault/api-docs/secret/identity/tpm#create-a-tpm) endpoint.
```

- `tpmgroup_ids` `(array: [] or comma-delimited string: "")` – List of TPM
  group IDs whose members are authorised to use this role. Group membership is

>   evaluated at login time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  group IDs whose members are authorized to use the role. Vault evaluates group
  membership at login time.
```

- `display_name` `(string: "")` – The display name attached to tokens issued

>   when authenticating with this role. Defaults to the role name if not set.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  when authenticating with the role. Defaults to the role name if not set.
```

- `cert_ttl` `(duration: "")` – Lifetime for client certificates issued by the

>   [`gentpmcert`](#begin-tpm-certificate-issuance) endpoint for this role. Zero

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  [`gentpmcert`](#begin-tpm-certificate-issuance) endpoint for the role. Zero
```

  means inherit the global `default_cert_ttl` from config, falling back to
  `ca_soft_expiry`. Accepts a Go duration string or an integer number of
  seconds.

@include 'tokenfields.mdx'

### Sample payload

```json
{
  "tpm_ids": ["sha256-abc123..."],
  "display_name": "my-device",
  "token_ttl": "1h",
  "token_policies": ["default", "my-policy"]
}
```

### Sample request

```shell-session
$ curl \

>     --header "X-Vault-Token: ..." \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ${VAULT_TOKEN}" \
```

    --request POST \
    --data @payload.json \

>     https://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/auth/tpm/role/my-role

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ${VAULT_ADDR}/v1/auth/tpm/role/my-role
```

```

### Sample response

```json
{
  "data": {
    "name": "my-role",
    "display_name": "my-device",
    "tpm_ids": ["sha256-abc123..."],
    "tpmgroup_ids": [],
    "cert_ttl": 0,
    "token_ttl": 3600,
    "token_max_ttl": 0,
    "token_policies": ["default", "my-policy"]
  }
}
```

---

## Read role

Return the configuration of an existing role.

| Method | Path                  |
| :----- | :-------------------- |
| `GET`  | `/auth/tpm/role/:name` |

### Parameters

- `name` `(string: <required>)` – Name of the role.

### Sample request

```shell-session
$ curl \

>     --header "X-Vault-Token: ..." \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ${VAULT_TOKEN}" \
```

>     https://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/auth/tpm/role/my-role

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ${VAULT_ADDR}/v1/auth/tpm/role/my-role
```

```

### Sample response

```json
{
  "data": {
    "name": "my-role",
    "display_name": "my-role",
    "tpm_ids": ["sha256-abc123..."],
    "tpmgroup_ids": [],
    "cert_ttl": 0,
    "token_ttl": 3600,
    "token_max_ttl": 0,
    "token_policies": ["default"]
  }
}
```

---

## List roles

List all configured role names.

| Method | Path             |
| :----- | :--------------- |
| `LIST` | `/auth/tpm/role` |

### Sample request

```shell-session
$ curl \

>     --header "X-Vault-Token: ..." \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ${VAULT_TOKEN}" \
```

    --request LIST \

>     https://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/auth/tpm/role

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ${VAULT_ADDR}/v1/auth/tpm/role
```

```

### Sample response

```json
{
  "data": {
    "keys": ["my-role", "another-role"]
  }
}
```

---

## Delete role

Delete a named role.

| Method   | Path                  |
| :------- | :-------------------- |
| `DELETE` | `/auth/tpm/role/:name` |

### Parameters

- `name` `(string: <required>)` – Name of the role to delete.

### Sample request

```shell-session
$ curl \

>     --header "X-Vault-Token: ..." \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ${VAULT_TOKEN}" \
```

    --request DELETE \

>     https://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/auth/tpm/role/my-role

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ${VAULT_ADDR}/v1/auth/tpm/role/my-role
```

```

---

## Begin TPM certificate issuance

Phase 1 of the two-phase TPM attestation protocol. The client submits its
Endorsement Key (EK) public key and Attestation Key (AK) parameters. Vault
verifies that the EK corresponds to a TPM enrolled under the given role, then
generates an encrypted credential challenge using the EK.

> This endpoint is **unauthenticated** — no Vault token is required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
@include '../../../global/partials/alerts/unrestricted.mdx'
```

| Method | Path                                    |
| :----- | :-------------------------------------- |
| `POST` | `/auth/tpm/role/:role_name/gentpmcert/begin` |

### Parameters

- `role_name` `(string: <required>)` – Name of the role to issue a certificate
  for.

- `ek_public_key` `(string: <required>)` – PEM-encoded RSA or EC public key

>   for the TPM's Endorsement Key. The TPM ID is derived as

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  for the TPM's Endorsement Key. Vault derives the TPM ID as
```

>   `sha256-<hex(SHA-256(DER bytes))>` and matched against the enrolled TPM

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  `sha256-<hex(SHA-256(DER bytes))>` and matches the ID against the enrolled TPM
```

  records.

- `ak_params` `(string: <required>)` – Base64-encoded JSON object containing

>   the Attestation Key's TPM 2.0 public parameters. The object has the following

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  the public TPM 2.0 parameters of the Attestation Key. The object has the following
```

  fields:

  | Field | Type | Description |
  | :---- | :--- | :---------- |
  | `public` | `bytes` | AK canonical encoding (TPM2B\_PUBLIC / TPMT\_PUBLIC). |
  | `create_data` | `bytes` | TPMS\_CREATION\_DATA structure for the AK. |
  | `create_attestation` | `bytes` | TPMS\_ATTEST structure for the AK. |
  | `create_signature` | `bytes` | TPMT\_SIGNATURE over `create_attestation`. |
  | `use_tcsd_activation_format` | `bool` | Set when the trousers daemon (tcsd) is used. |

### Sample request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --request POST \
    --data @payload.json \

>     https://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/auth/tpm/role/my-role/gentpmcert/begin

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ${VAULT_ADDR}/v1/auth/tpm/role/my-role/gentpmcert/begin
```

```

### Sample response

> The `encrypted_credentials` value is a base64-encoded JSON blob containing a
> TPM2 `EncryptedCredential` structure. The client must pass it to the TPM's
> `TPM2_ActivateCredential` command using the AK handle and the EK handle; the
> TPM returns the raw secret bytes if and only if the AK was created on the same
> TPM as the EK.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `encrypted_credentials` value is a base64-encoded JSON blob containing a
TPM2 `EncryptedCredential` structure clients must pass to the
`TPM2_ActivateCredential` command using the AK handle and the EK handle. The
TPM returns the raw secret bytes if and only if the AK was created on the same
TPM as the EK.
```

```json
{
  "data": {
    "challenge_id": "dGVzdGNoYWxsZW5nZQ==",
    "encrypted_credentials": "base64-encoded-credential-blob..."
  }
}
```

The challenge expires after **5 minutes**. At most one outstanding challenge
per TPM is kept; submitting a new `/begin` request for the same EK invalidates
any previous challenge. Requests from the same EK are rate-limited to one every

> 10 seconds.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The challenge expires after **5 minutes**. Vault only keeps one active challenge
per TPM. Submitting a new `/begin` request for the same EK invalidates any
previous challenge. Vault rate limits requests from the same EK to one every
10 seconds.
```

---

## Finish TPM certificate issuance

Phase 2 of the two-phase TPM attestation protocol. The client submits the
decrypted challenge response (proving hardware possession) along with a CSR and
key certification parameters (proving the application key was created on the
same TPM). Vault verifies all inputs and, if successful, issues a client

> certificate signed by the backend's active CA.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
certificate signed by the active CA.
```

> This endpoint is **unauthenticated** — no Vault token is required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
@include '../../../global/partials/alerts/unrestricted.mdx'
```

- `challenge_id` `(string: <required>)` – The `challenge_id` value returned by
  the `/begin` call.

- `challenge_response` `(string: <required>)` – Base64-encoded raw bytes
  returned by the TPM's `TPM2_ActivateCredential` command. Must equal the
  secret generated during `/begin`.

- `csr` `(string: <required>)` – PEM-encoded PKCS#10 Certificate Signing
  Request for the application key. The key in the CSR must be TPM-resident (see
  `key_certification`).

- `key_certification` `(string: <required>)` – Base64-encoded JSON object
  containing the TPM certification parameters that prove the application key
  (matching the CSR) was created inside the same TPM. The object has the
  following fields:

  | Field | Type | Description |
  | :---- | :--- | :---------- |
  | `public` | `bytes` | Application key canonical encoding (TPMT\_PUBLIC). |
  | `create_data` | `bytes` | TPMS\_CREATION\_DATA structure for the key. |
  | `create_attestation` | `bytes` | TPMS\_ATTEST structure for the key. |
  | `create_signature` | `bytes` | TPMT\_SIGNATURE over `create_attestation`, signed by the AK. |

### Sample request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --request POST \
    --data @payload.json \

>     https://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/auth/tpm/role/my-role/gentpmcert/finish

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ${VAULT_ADDR}/v1/auth/tpm/role/my-role/gentpmcert/finish
```

```

### Sample response

```json
{
  "data": {
    "certificate": "-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----\n...\n-----END CERTIFICATE-----",
    "ca_chain": [
      "-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----\n...\n-----END CERTIFICATE-----"
    ]
  }
}
```

The issued certificate embeds two OtherName SAN extensions:

| OID suffix | Value |
| :--------- | :---- |
| `1.3.6.1.4.1.55813.1.1.1` | TPM ID (`sha256-<hex>`) derived from the EK public key. |
| `1.3.6.1.4.1.55813.1.1.2` | Role name used during issuance. |

> Both values are verified at login time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Vault verifies both values at login time.
```

---

## Login

Authenticate using a TPM-backed client certificate obtained from the
[`gentpmcert`](#begin-tpm-certificate-issuance) endpoints. The certificate
must be presented as the TLS client certificate on the connection; Vault
verifies the chain against its internal CA, checks the TPM ID and role-name
OtherName SANs, confirms the TPM is enrolled, and checks role authorisation

> before issuing a token.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[`gentpmcert`](#begin-tpm-certificate-issuance) endpoints. You must present the
certificate as the TLS client certificate on the connection. Vault
verifies the chain against its internal CA, checks the TPM ID and role-name
OtherName SANs, confirms the TPM is enrolled, and checks role authorization
before issuing a token.
```

> This endpoint is **unauthenticated** — no Vault token is required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
@include '../../../global/partials/alerts/unrestricted.mdx'
```

> | Method | Path              |jjjjjjjjjjjjjjj

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Method | Path              |
```

| :----- | :---------------- |
| `POST` | `/auth/tpm/login` |

### Parameters

- `role_name` `(string: <required>)` – The name of the role to authenticate
  against. Must match the role name embedded in the client certificate's

>   OtherName SAN.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  against. Must match the role name embedded in the OtherName SAN of the client
  certificate.
```

### Sample payload

```json
{
  "role_name": "my-role"
}
```

### Sample request

> There is no mechanism in curl to use a TPM-embedded private key, so instead here's how to do it with the Vault cli:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
cURL does not support TPM-embedded private keys. To call the login endpoint. We
recommend using an appropriate code library or the Vault CLI:
```

> ```bash

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```shell-session
````

> vault login -method=cert -tpm-state-dir=/private -role_name=my-role

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ vault login -method=cert -tpm-state-dir=/private -role_name=my-role
```

```

### Sample response

```json
{
  "auth": {

>     "client_token": "cf95f87d-f95b-47ff-b1f5-ba7bff850425",

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    "client_token": "00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000",
```
We've had some of the security tools flag realistic looking example keys/IDs/etc. To avoid false positives, we keep the format of the string, but use zeros for the individual digits.

    "policies": ["default", "my-policy"],
    "metadata": {
      "role_name": "my-role",
      "common_name": "tpm-client",
      "serial_number": "123456789",
      "subject_key_id": "aa:bb:cc:...",
      "authority_key_id": "dd:ee:ff:...",
      "tpm_id": "sha256-abc123..."
    },
    "lease_duration": 3600,
    "renewable": true
  }
}
```

> The token alias name is set to the TPM ID (`sha256-<hex>`), which allows

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Vault sets the token alias name to the TPM ID (`sha256-<hex>`), which allows
```
